So the idea in the AWS EMR,
we need to build an EMR cluster,
Elastic Map Reduce, and put HDFS and Spark on it.
So we will have all our nodes,
and our nodes are going to be storage nodes and processing nodes.
The idea is that data would live in the sources initially.
We're going to ingest this data,
and here the ingest,
the data pipe-lining tools are the same,
put them here, and here are the data in various formats all live in this storage.
Once they are ingested,
they are queried in place.
The data doesn't move anywhere else,
the data stays here.
Only the results of the our queries come to the BI and the analytics apps.
Also, if this cluster is shut down,
this means we don't have access to the data.
This is unlike, of course S3,
I mean S3 if something is an S3,
S3 doesn't shut down.
It's always available.
So in that case,
here this HDFS cluster becomes these are like any database actually it's on all the time.
Are they not supposed to be on?
Of course, they're supposed to be on.
But that's in contrast to the other mode we're going to see now.
But bottom line is,
here what do we pay?
We pay the cost of having all the EC2 machines on which the EMR cluster is running.
So you have to compute the cost of each such node,
of course, if you have these,
these could be as powerful as you want,
and they are always on 24-7 and you need to compute that cost.